Mexico '87
or
THE MEXICO 13
by Bob Simonds
The VPI Christmas '87 Mexico trip consisted of Cecile James, Don
"Grand-Don'' Anderson, Gary Moss, Jean "Juanita" Hartman,
Alexandro Villagomez, Jerry "Fat Boy" Redder, Paul "Pablo" Hess,
Paul and Berta Kirchman, Chris Amundson, Bob Alderson, and Jean
and Bob Simonds; the "Mexico 13." Twelve of us shoved off out of
B'burg as soon as we got the cars packed which was about
midnight, Friday, Dec. 18. That put us in Houston 24 hours later
where we met up with Alex and crashed for about six hours at
Kirsten Pirie's house. The cat ran immediately to Bob Alderson,
who, of course, hates cats,
We crossed into Mexico late Sunday, Dec, 20, and then drove on to
Ciudad Victoria that night, thereby breaking one of the basic
rules of Mexican travel; don't drive at night, Monday morning we
hit the market for last grocery items as we planned on camping
for the next several nights. Then it took us several hours to
find and buy automobile insurance so we didn't get out of town as
quickly as we wanted. The place we delt with wasn't really set to
sell turista insurance, Lesson: get insurance ahead of time or
at least at the border where they are set up to sell turista
insurance. We finally left Victoria in the early afternoon still
planning to do a pit that day.
Later that day, Monday, we did Cueva del Abra, a good warm up
with a 385' rappel and a 100' (although it seemed like less)
climb out. Some of the more gung-ho types (Pablo, Juanita, Paul,
Berta, and Alex) did it backwards. Not me, I knew that I had
enough climbing ahead. We got on the road again well after dark,
heading for the mountains south of Ciudad Valles. It had started
to rain before we turned off the highway onto the rough dirt road
that leads eventually to Tamapatz, We got to San Isidro at about
midnight where we crashed in front of a small store on a concrete
slab used to dry coffee beans, It had been a long day and even
though we had only been in Mexico for about 30 hours, it seemed
much much longer,
We woke up Tuesday to fog and rain and readied ourselves to do
Hoya de Huahuas, about a 45 minute hike up through the jungle
above San Isidro, The pit had a mysterious air to it as the fog
came and went all day and often we couldn't see across the 300'
or so diameter of the entrance. Both sides were rigged: the 700'
side was double rigged for rappelling, although some people
climbed it also; and a 470' side for climbing. The bottom was
awesome at six acres or so and with a large hole leading lower
off to one side, And there was the sound of hundreds of parrots
squabbling in their nests invisible somewhere up above. The
entrance was fairly large, and the pit was "relatively" shallow
so there was quite a bit of light at the bottom which meant green
plants and the ability to take pictures, The 470' climb out was
interesting as it was the second longest I had ever done and the
first of any length in anything approaching daylight. It was
13
