strange to be able to see the entire bottom and the walls during
the climb, Progress seemed slow, though, as the walls were far
away, I'm not sure which bothers me more: being in daylight and
able to see the walls and bottom and therefore feeling
insignificant; or being in darkness and unable to see the walls
and bottom and therefore feeling insignificant,
We got back to camp in the rain and dark and considered going to
Tamapatz that night to do Golandrinas the next day. Eventually,
better sense prevailed and we decided to slow down the pace that
had been flogging us since we left Blacksburg four nights before,
We'd camp at San Isidro again that night and go up to Tamapatz
the next day and do Golandrinas the day after that, Christmas
Eve. Also, there was something said about calling bad luck by
doing Huahuas one day and Golandrinas the next.
By the time we got under way again on Wednesday, Dec, 23, the sun
was coming out which was really nice as we had been in clouds and
rain almost constantly since leaving Blacksburg. We drove the
rest of the way to Tamapatz in an hour or two, first gear all the
way, and secured a "hotel"; several rooms without electricity or
furniture for less than $2/night on the roof of a coffee
warehouse. The sanitary facilities were promptly dubbed the
"Black Hole of Tamapatz." This would be home for the next five
nights, We spread out and rechecked out gear as the next day was
going to be the BIG one, the one we'd all heard about since the
beginning of our vertical caving careers,
Christmas Eve morning dawned bright and sunny. We ate and loaded
up in the cars for the additional mile or two drive to the area
of the cave. The short hike from the road to the pit turned into
quite a procession: twelve gringos, one Mexican gringo, and about
fifty Mexican porters, guides and followers, Naturally, every
little kid wanted a piece of the action so you end up paying
each of them something like 100 pesos (about 5 cents) to carry
daypacks and things like that, A short hike down through bananas
and coffee, you come to THE PIT; El Sotano de las Golandrinas,
It was quite a circus at the top of the pit; riggers trying to
rig two 1500' ropes amidst jabbering Mexicans and the rest of us
just trying to get our nerves in order. The first two rappelers
nervously went over the edge then the next two, all with almost a
carnival atmosphere at the edge with all the Mexicans. Chris
Amundson and Gary Moss were not going to do the pit; Chris felt
that she didn't have the vertical experience and Gary's climb out
of Huahuas left him feeling that he wasn't prepared to climb
1100'. At about this time I decided that I wasn't going to do it
either; too fuckin' scared, I wished Jean well and told her to
take lots of pictures, I'd content myself with the beautiful day
at the top of the drop. After the last rappelers were gone most
of the Mexicans left and it got very quiet, Shit, I'd come all
this way and then I didn't Do it. Don Anderson's voice came up
from the depths over the radio: "This is beautiful. That's the
most fantastic rappel I've ever had," Shit, Pause, Well hell,
I'll do it anyway I better go now though, before I change my
mind, I threw my vertical stuff into my pack, having to swap some
14
