PAUL PENLEY'S
"THE LOOP?"
It all started on November 6, after the weekly Cave Club
meeting. I was looking for a cave trip to join for that weekend
and wow, did I find one! The trip was planned for the following
weekend, but that didn't matter it was going to be a tough and
rewarding trip. "A ten hour trip, minimum.", a "Bring an extra
shirt in case you get cold.", a "Lots of tight passages and a
couple of nasty stream crawls" trip. These were some of the
warnings, or should I say, some of the advice Joe Zokaites gave
us before the trip.
November 14, 1992, Joe, Leroy, Amy, Steve and myself left
Blacksburg bright and early for Skydusky Hollow, and Molly
Penley's home. Molly greeted us at the front door and invited us
in for a chat. About an hour after we had arrived there came a
knock at the door, and in walked another dozen or so VPI cavers.
So much for our early start. The house was full of cavers,
standing room only, and we decided that it was time to start our
expedition. Next stop, the Harman's residence to ask permission
to complete our trip by exiting their cave entrance. After
knocking on the door, and looking around the yard for five
minutes, we decided no one was home except the dogs!
By this time it was getting late and we all were anxious to
get into the cave! Once every one was in the cave we set off for
Whisper Hollow. Not too far along we came to a thirty foot climb
down, covered in loose rock, one at a time we each climbed down
and continued on. The cave had been quite pleasant up to this
point, but here is where the fun began. Our first obstacle was a
jagged loose rock, with a piece of orange flagging tied around it
warning, DO NOT TOUCH. Followed by another loose rock above an
near stream crawl, if you keep your butt high enough you wouldn't
get wet. It was at this point that I knocked my lamp off of my
helmet for the first time.
Whisper Hollow lay on the other side, it was a nice walking
passage and filled with bats. The plan was to rig a cable ladder
at the end of whisper hollow and later climb it. Leroy rigged
the cable ladder and we all dropped off some of our extra gear.
Joe estimated four and a half hours to complete the loop and
return to this point, at the bottom of the cable ladder.
We then backtracked through Whisper Hollow, and carefully
crawled past the two loose rocks; I kept one hand on my lamp for
fear of loosing it again. We stopped next to a small passage
better known as the 2 crawl. With a lot of grunting and
groaning, we all emerged on the other side in one piece. Once
through, we all had the same question, why is it named the 2
crawl when it's really in the shape of a W? Continuing along,
stopping occasionally to poke around and find the right passage,
i
15
