--------.
...
..
.
..---
we made our way to a very interesting formation, the tongue,
drool included.
We chimneyed down twenty feet directly below the tongue and
ended up on a thirty-five foot high ledge. Using a piece of
sling I did my first arm rappel and landed safely at the bottom.
The only way out of this good sized room was up a fifteen foot
dirt/mud wall. Using me as a ladder Leroy climbed to the top.
Then using Joe as a ladder I climbed up, as I threw my hand over
the top all I could hold on to was a mound/ridge of mud. After
almost trampling Joe to death Leroy was able to help me up. Amy
was third, she stood on Joe's shoulder while Leroy and myself
easily lifted her to the top. Steve, the fourth in line, reached
his arm over the top as I had and, my fears about that mound of
mud came true. With one big heave Steve pulled down a chunk of
mud the size of a 19" Sony Color Television, with remote of
course, right on to Joe. They both fell down with a horrible
THUD! No one hurt, Steve tried again and made it, with Joe soon
to follow.
From this point we chimneyed down a passage about twenty
feet and began what would turn out to be a very long crawl.
Earlier Amy's lamp had started acting up and about a third of the
way up this uphill crawl it died. Steve helped her with it while
the rest of us crawled on. As I continued I ran into a dead end,
yet Joe and Leroy were no where to be found. After backing up
about ten feet and looking up I saw a hole. Thinking I was out
of the crawlway I stood up only to find more crawly passage!
After climbing up a ten foot well and continuing we reached
another dead end. By this time Amy's light had gone out again.
As she opened her lamp and poured the carbide soup into her dump
bottle we all had a good laugh. Not knowing where to go Joe
decided to tell us it had been eight or ten years since he had
last been in this cave!
A closer look at the situation gave us a few possibilities.
There was a hole in the ceiling and about twenty feet back down
the passage there was a yucky looking crawl. Joe decided to
check out the crawl and Steve went climbing. After a while
Steve's voice was very faint so Leroy climbed up after him. Amy
stood at the bottom of the hole and I went to the start of the
crawl that Joe went down. With much difficulty the message was
sent to Joe that Steve had found elephant tracks. Several
minutes later Joe emerged and the rest of us climbed into the
ceiling. The tracks led to the left through a very tight
squeeze. Once on the other side we chimneyed for more than a
hundred feet on thick clay covered walls. And then we saw her,
the naked lady of the cave. With one hand held up, was she
beckoning us closer, or attempting to keep us away? Not knowing,
we climbed down past her. Chimnying another thirty feet we came
to a mud slope over looking a thirty, or eighty foot drop,
depending upon who you ask. Never the less we turned around and
started back. That tight squeeze we had just came through turned
16
