however, in a cave, it is often necessary to open up one or
two Fstops on the camera aperture to get proper exposure
when the flash is more than a few feet away from the
subject. It is also effective to use multiple flashes, held
by assistants and aimed simultaneously at different
formations, etc. The possibilities are endless.
Although most cave photography will be done with
"electronic" flashes (strobes), there are some situations,
mainly in big rooms, where they will just not give
satisfactory results, because they will not have enough
power. (Flashes put out different amounts of light, and
generally, the more light, the more expensive the flash will
be.) In these cases, there is an alternative: the old-
fashioned flash bulb. These contain an igniter in contact
with very fine wire made of aluminum and other metals that
will burn very brightly, in an atmosphere of pure oxygen.
These are getting hard to find, and if bought from retail
photography stores, can be very expensive. $0.50 -$3.00 per
bulb, depending on size, if you can find them, is not
unrealistic. However, there are cheap flashbulbs out there,
for those who really want to dig around and find them. They
can be found in flea markets, garage sales, and the back
rooms of photography stores (in which cases the dealer may
be willing to let go of them at a much lower price, just to
get them out of his way -there is not a great deal of demand
for them, and most of them are not even being made any
more). They are also sometimes advertised in the NSS news.
The guide numbers of flash bulbs work just like the guide
numbers of electronic flashes - they are just bigger and
therefore will light up a much larger area. For example, a
#5B, which is about the size of a golf ball, has a guide
number (when used in the correct reflector), of about twice
that of most standard electronic flashes. I use a Vivitar
model 283 in this example (assuming 100 speed film), since
it is the kind I use in caves. It has a guide number of
about 110. The guide number of the #5B bulb is about 220.
There are larger sizes, up to the #50B, which is about 2 1/2
inches in diameter, has a screw base like a regular light
bulb, and a guide number of about 380 to 400. Another
advantage of flash bulbs is that they can be fired by low-
voltage sources (2-3 volts minimum, although a much more
efficient batterycapacitor device can be constructed
inexpensively). I have never tried it, but I would bet you
could fire one underwater with no trouble. (You would not
try that with an electronic flash.) They can also be fired
by taping them together in a bundle of as many as can be
assembled, with only one of them actually fired by the
electric circuit; the heat from the first one will set off
the rest of them, and this can make it easy to combine them
for even more power and range. Of course, they require the
correct sockets and reflectors, and after being used, they
become garbage and must be disposed of properly. Also,
please note that clear flash bulbs used with color film will
give an unnatural yellowish color to whatever is lighted by
to)
sc.
19.
