----
----
---
---
--------
-
-----
--------
Pit Trip To Alabama
Many people decided to spend spring break in Alabama bouncing
pits, and I was one of them. Jerry Redder told me to meet in
back of Derring on Friday at five. When I got there, it was the
usual chaos. Jim Washington and party went shopping at the
grocery store; Ko Takamizawa and others went to the ABC store.
At 7:00p.m., although everyone was still not ready, Cecile James
and I left. At 3 a.m. the next morning we arrived at the
rendezvous point; an unlit parking lot in front of Western
Sizzler. An old timer named Bill Stringfellow was there to meet
us. As ko and I were getting ready to set up our sleeping bags
in the parking lot, Jerry finally gave the word to go to the
campground.
After an amazingly fast ride going 70 mph through unknown
backroads we arrived at the garbage dump. We have pictures to
prove this. When we tried to park next to Jerry's van, we
discovered that there was a baby carriage in the way. I took my
sleeping bag and walked over to a less debris strewn area. After
stomping down some grass and helping Ko put down a tarp, I fell
asleep to the sound of Craig Ferguson and Jenny Ford arguing over
who's sleeping bag was better.
12
The next morning, after much ado, the impatient people, including
me, walked up from the trash dump towards Steven's Gap, I got to
a pit and waited for Doug Perkins. He looked at the pit and
confirmed that the rigging point was where I was standing.
Moments later, about 7 of us were down, and Doug Abernathy was
about to abseil the pit. Surprise! The pit was only 60 feet.
deep and it wasn't even the right one. We yelled "don't come
down" and got out of there. Mike Fiore scouted ahead for the
REAL pit but came back to report he could not find it. Finally,
all of us followed the stream up the watershed. It was a lot
like hiking up to the Cascades.
I think Steven's Gap is beautiful. There is a tremendous
half-moon shaped entrance. The 150 foot pit has a good sized
tubular waterfall. Sunlight makes the spray gleam and sparkle as
water tumbles over the edge. No prussik is required; after
rappelling you can walk out. At the bottom, a fallen tree is
angled against the wall where a stream flows into the pit. The
tree isn't too hard to get up, but negotiating the stream is.
Cecile, Beth and Jim got completely soaked in their attempts.
Beth was too modest to take off her shirt despite pleas from
Reggie. Paul, Reggie and I bopped the pit twice. Mike did a
weird spinning rappel, Paul said that Mike should smoke some
hero. Gary was off in his own world studying plants.
At only 1:00 we were de-rigged and ready for the next pit. We
went to Neversink. It was a long hike through some stream
washes. Reggie made it only because he saw glimpes of Doug
Perkins' red shirt. Someone said it looked like a miniature
Guasguas. We double rigged the pit and designated one line for .
