15
of the numerous intersections where passages take off from the
near-loop. This was the beginning of the elbow-to-elbow phase.
These cavers were to stay near enough to the intersection to keep
track of any movement through it, while searching any and all
nooks, crannies, corners, or small holes near their posts. At
this point, because there had been no sign of Dersch on any of
the searches, it was concluded that either he was disabled
somewhere in an obscure side passage or a pit, or that he had
somehow managed to stay fit enough to be moving around and thus
eluding the search teams. In either case, placing cavers
throughout the cave, and especially at all key intersections, was
the best method of either finding or intercepting him.
In order to accommodate the incoming cavers (estimated to be about
100 in the air and on the road) additional staging and camping
areas were established at a short distance across the fields from
the Command Post. At about 8PM some of the cavers who had been
working since the night before left for home but remained on
standby for a possible callback Monday night.
Pirie's crew exited through Lightner's and reported no signs of
Dersch.
Balfour's party exited through McClung's and reported no signs of
Dersch.
At 8:58PM Alderson's group reported from First Breakdown that
they were on their way out and had found no signs of Dersch.
At 9:05PM members of Lindsay's party found Jeff Dersch in the
Seven Fingers near-loop. He was conscious, alert, and moving
under his own power. They led him out through the McClung
entrance, where he was checked by the medical personnel there and
was found to be hungry and cold, but otherwise in good health.
Dersch had been underground for just under 28 hours. He was
brought back to the Communications Center to be debriefed. He
was also fed and his family called back to let them know that he
was all right.
During the debriefing we were able to reconstruct what had
happened from Dersch's point of view. After he left the main
group, he apparently thrashed around the cave for awhile, mostly
in Freeman Avenue. When he finally realized that he was in
serious trouble, he started to do things right. He looked for a
room to hole up in, and, so that he could be found easily, he
chose one with several passages coming into it -- the room off of
the Freeman Avenue end of Batbone Crawl (although he didn't know
where he was). He turned off his lamp to conserve light, and
slept. He knew that hypothermia was a major and dangerous
possibility, so he chose his Hole-Up Room for its lack of airflow
and he slept in a position that would ensure that he fall over
and wake up when he got cold. When this happened, he would
traverse the loop formed by North Freeman and the Jeb Stuart
passage. When he was warm, he would return to the Hole-Up Room
and sleep some more,
