27
MEXICO FEVER
by Craig Roberts
On a trip that lasted fifteen days and covered over 5,000 miles,
it would be impossible to describe all the trials and errors or
all the excitement and growth we all experienced. Although the
book might be quite enjoyable to read, it would be just that, a
book. Instead, I would just like to relate what the Mexico trip
was for me.
I started planning this years' trip somewhere between Houston and
Texarkana, in the back of my mind, while driving home from last
years trip with Maureen Handler. At the time, I was
transportation-less, penniless, and unprepared to lead any sort
of "expedition;" but then again, some of the best caving trips of
my life have started out worse.
Although I could do nothing immediately about my dream, I kept
the thought well guarded in the back of my mind. I feverishly
worked last summer and eventually sank most of my savings into
the ugly, brick of a Chevy I lovingly call "Sow". When I
returned to campus this fall, I began spreading my disease of
"Mexico Fever" to my friends, and soon they were all infected
with the idea themselves. There is no vaccination against young,
brash ideas except the wisdom of age, and being all students,
except for Garrie Rouse, we were all a bit short on that. Of
course, everyone knows that Garrie is a kid at heart. Thus, we
were all caught up in the idea wholeheartedly, and soon we all
set to work planning and preparing to face the awesome "vacation"
we all desired for ourselves.
The enthusiasm of actually pulling the trip off drove us on, and
our plan looked like it was going well. We tackled all the major
obstacles of securing reliable transportation (ha, ha) and
clearing the idea with our parents with relative ease. The rope
purchase went smoothly too, as did convincing Alejandro
Villagomez that our expedition would definitely be a blast. In
fact, we did such a good job convincing him, that he quit his job
in order to come with us!
The trip itself, although not without its problems, really did go
quite smoothly. As with any expedition, all of the members play
an integral part in pulling off the trip's goals. No one must
feel left out or be overburdened in order for things to run
smoothly. I know now that without the cooperation and
understanding we all expressed, the trip would have been a
disaster. On our trip, each and every person, in their own
special way, pulled their load. Even though everyone had to make
sacrifices, we managed to swallow our problems to the greater
extent and have a really good time. Everyone grew a little bit
wiser, too.
