The Editor's Column
I would like to thank everyone who helped make this the best,
or at least the fattest Trog of my budding editorial career.
Beth Wichterman did a bunch of writing and typing as well as
cutting and pasting. Jean Simonds and Glen Davis cut and pasted
and supplied generous amounts of editorial advice. Thanks also
to Chris Amundson and Richard Cobb whose writings were not
intended for the Trog, but who allowed me to include them anyway.
Jim Washington taught me a thing or two with his Tricks of the
Trade, and Jackie Redder enlightened me about the Balister Bag.
Cecile James, Dave McClurg, and perhaps Doug Abernathy too came
through with Trainee articles. Mike Futrell did some artwork and
Craig Roberts allowed me to twist his arm to write a couple of
articles. Thanks Dudes.
Where to I go from here? Right now I'm little burned out but
I'll recover in a few weeks. I have some ideas that I'd like to
try. For one thing, I'd like to see the publication moved up to
an earlier part of the quarter. An ideal time might be the first
week elasses, As things are now, I always seem to end up trying
to recruit help when everyone is desperately trying to last
minute save their QCA. That will mean that everyone will have to
turn in your fine articles earlier, though. What do you think?
Of course there's another possibility: there may actually be
someone out there who is desperately waiting for this job but is
afraid come forward and take Trog away from me. Fear not, the
editorship is yours for the asking. Furthermore, I will even be
glad to help. But I don't know if you're there unless you tell
me.
There are still two areas in which the Trog is lacking, in my
opinion: artwork and plain old trip reports. There are some
good artists out there, I've seen your work. And I'm sure
everyone has a certain caving trip that they can't forget (even
though they may want to) which we'd all like to read about. If
you're really embarrassed about it I'll promise total anonymity.
And we can always resort to the old cliches such as "names can be
changed to protect the guilty," or "any resemblance to persons
living or dead is purely coincidental." How about it guys?
Finally, since elections are coming up in a few weeks, that sort
of makes this the end of the year. I think all the officers have
done a fine job and each of you ought to consider running for
reelection. That's not to mean that I think you should run
unopposed. What would election night be without several hours of
good mud slinging?
In the meanwhile, have a good Spring Break. Hope to see you in
Alabama!
BoB
