Some Thoughts On Confidence ...
by Reggie Reid
Caving, like any other sport, requires good physical
coordination, a certain amount of endurance, and most
importantly, good judgement and confidence. Good judgement is
essential to any sport in which small errors can have
catastrophic consequences. In caving, as in most other such
sports (auto/motorcycle racing, etc. ) technological advances have
allowed participants a greater margin of error. As a result, the
equipment used has become an integral and indispensable part of
caving (if one wishes to cave safely). Though veteran (and
novice) cavers will argue over the usefulness or uselessness of
various pieces of equipment from clothing to ropes, they agree
upon one thing: the usefulness of a piece of equipment is
partially dependent upon the user's faith or confidence in the
article. While good cavers take all precautions necessary to
mitigate the consequences of equipment failure, to be a truly
effective caver, absolute confidence in the equipment is
necessary
Even more important than faith in one's equipment is having
confidence in one's caving partners. Whenever you are on rope or
performing a difficult climb, the belayer is completely
responsible for your safety. Having confidence in the belayer
often makes it a lot easier to concentrate on climbing.
Confidence in oneself and one's climbing ability is also of
paramount importance. Self-confidence inspires other's
confidence in you. Since a caver's life may often depend on
his/her judgement, the ability of his partners, and the proper
use of equipment, tempered by common sense and experience,
self-confidence may be a caver's greatest asset.
