turned out that we had just won a bet in Pete's favor. He had
bet Borden that T.T. was under CMD, rather than above as Jim
claimed. The bet was a case of beer, so we named the dome after
the climb-up into the Cannuck Canyon connection in his honor:
"Borden's Beer Dome." We mapped up the climb and connected into
the Canadian Mist Hike survey. After we finished eating a meal,
we surveyed the rest of the Hike, and a very tight canyon off the
end of it. We broke off the survey because it just wasn't fun
surveying in the canyon, also Pete had to get back to Muncie In.
for a soccer game (he didn't play because he was too sore). It
took us two and a half hours to get out, even with backsights,
and by the time we got to the entrance I was dragging.
11/6-11/7 The weekend after I was back in Tenn. being bored to
tears. We went ridgewalking and didn't find anything; we also
went into two caves but only for a little while. I was in pain
from a strained shoulder, and could do very little. At least I
got away from school for a couple days, even though I didn't do
much else.
11/13 This weekend, I finally talked Geary into going mapping.
Actually, he and I both had been wanting to go mapping for a long
time, but he had sprained his ankle at the Geo club pig-out. This
was the first weekend that he was able to go on a trip, so we
took off to a baby giant he had been raving about for a month:
The Sinking Creek System. He, Sue, Bob Zoelner, and a Birmingham
caver, Mark Poster, and I went into the cave through the biggest
entrance I've seen. The entrance room had Indian artifacts just
lying around on the floor, but people had been digging up bones
and arrow points, so the floor was riddled with holes.
We had to go through a tight spot, and Mark just wouldn't fit
through. So he and Geary went through a crawl while Sue, Bob and
I started mapping a huge trunk. At one end was an entrance about
thirty feet high and about fifty feet wide. We couldn't come in
this entrance because the landowner is hostile. I looked to the
side of the entrance sink and saw another entrance just sitting
there waiting to be explored. The trunk continued at the
dimensions of the entrance for about five hundred feet, then
mudfilled. When we had finished this, Geary, Sue and Bob
explored the place where the stream drained off to the left, and
I resketched a portion of the trunk that Geary had done before.
Bob came out of the crawl soaked, so he- and Sue left for the
car. Mark had started up the crawl with the tape, so we mapped
about a hundred feet of this before deciding to stop. The crawl
had nice big chert balls imbedded in the walls and floor, and as
we crawled along they did nice things to our knees. It was like
having them massaged with a ten pound sledgehammer.
