this far in the 1800's but where we went I'm sure he'd never been
(he didn't like crawling). We mapped a short segment of a
migrating shaft with a nice sandy floor to the end where it got
tight and filled to the ceiling with sandstone. (For the
followers of cave lore as in The Longest Cave, this lead heads
toward Q-87 in Flint Ridge from the Mammoth side.) We went back
out to another lead after finishing here, and mapped a little of
some upper levels.
John and I took turns leading out of the cave, but after we
got around the main trunk I got lost. John somehow got through
some passage we'd not seen earlier due to a tour (it's a weird
feeling to have to dodge tours), and soon we were going down the
main trunk of Mammoth walking down the almost paved trail of the
historic tour. With our eyes adjusted we could see how big the
passage was; coming in, all we'd seen was the trail. When we got
to the entrance, Richard fished out the key and unlocked the
gate, and we walked up the stairs out of the entrance and to the
car. Back at the fieldhouse we pigged out on lasagne, bread, and
salad, and eventually hit the sack.
4/23 A week later, I took the last chance to go caving to
Roppel. George Veni and Terry Leithauser were going to dive the
upstream Logsdon's River sump upstream and I was going to sherpa
gear. When we got to the fieldhouse it was raining incredibly
hard, so the trip was aborted (Kentucky Karst sucks water fast).
I ended up going with Bill Walter, Dave Weller, and Darlene
Anthony to the Cosmodrome at the end of Freedom trail in the far
eastern edge of the cave.
After carrying a pound and a half of Tovex (BOOM!!!) in my
dump bottle, and trading off carrying the box with the blasting
caps and generator in it for two hours, I decided it better be
good. The Cosmodrome is a big dome with several leads off of it,
one of them had a pile of breakdown perched at the top of a
climb. We were determined to find out what was up there. Darlene
and I found some dirt and made some mud, and while Dave packed
some bang into a crack, discussed where the dead rat at the
bottom of the dome had come from.
A few minutes later we were listening to the rumble of the
breakdown coming down. Definitely impressive! And after the
smoke had cleared, we went through the canyon into the dome to
see the climb greatly altered. Bill attacked it, and after I saw
that he didn't die I followed. The lead was looking fantastic,
but it started for the ceiling and died in a tight canyon full of
sand. We mapped it and packed up to do some mapping a little
closer to the entrance. After about ten stations of upper level
shit we decided to leave. The cave was at high flow and
everything was gushing. At one point I thought we were going to
have some problems. At a place called "Haystack dome" the water
had risen about six feet, but had not cut off the passage. Bill
somehow got across without getting wet, but Darlene and Dave
jumped in. When it was my turn I was determined to keep dry. So
I did a layback across one wall into a chimney between a
flowstone haystack and the wall. It was great until I climbed
right into a little stream down the flowstone and soaked my left
leg, but at least I wasn't totally soaked, which would have
