encroach upon your pos-
ition as the evening pro-
gresses. Think about it
the next time you get to
feeling sick.
HOME, I REACHEL CAMPUS,
BUT WAS OVERWHELME WITH
PUUR FEELING AND WAS MADE
TU SIT DOWN FOR A MINUTE.
WHEN 1 AWURE, AT ARUUNU
CIGHT A ., I FOUND THAT
I WAS LEANING UP AGAINST
#WALL, COVERED WITH PAE
FROM HEAD TO TO, AND HILL
ALL OF MY EQUIPMENT SCAT-
TERED ABOUT ME, I WENT
ON HOME IN A BAL WAY.
Comments: "Drink nothing
but beer, never fear; try
some harder liquor, you'll
find yourself sicker,"
anow your limitations and
try to exceed them only
when you have the time or
energy to waste. If you
can't hold down what you
put down, don't waste it.
JUNE, 1976
AFTER ONE OF MY NIGHT
CLASSES I WENT UVER TO A
GRADUATION PARTY FOR A
FRIEND. THIS WAS ON WED-
NESDAY. WE WERE ALL DU.
ING SOME HEAVY DRINKING
FRUL A KEG, SUDDENLY,
THE KEG WENT DRY. WE HAD
A MOMENT OF CONFUSION,
BUT MANAGED TO SAVE THE
SITUATION SY BREAKING UUT
A PINT OF SOMETHING-OR-
UTHER. VERY QUICKLY THE
PINT WENT DRY. AGAIN WE
WERE WORRIED UNTIL WE GOT
UUT A WUART OF GRAIN AL-
CUMUL. SOON THEREAFTER I
WENT DRY--PLEAVING, THAT
IS. I WAS FELLING PUURLY
(HUGGING THE CUMMODC) UN-
TIL FRIDAY
Comments: It takes a
long time to discover the
hazards of solo drinking.
You tend to consume too
much too fast when you are
alone. It is also harm-
ful to try to journey back
from a party alone for
just the reason described
above; you tend not to
get back. Additionally,
everyone should learn that
the happy hour is often
a mixed blessing.
FULLOW UP on a Near Piss
Recently, we recieved
a letter explaining how
a party was ruined when
the gasket on the tapper
failed to operate in the
proper manner. We have
been unable to ascertain
whether the gasket was
ruptured or improperly
seated. Extensive ex-
perimentation on this
problem has been done.
and we have determined
the optimum solution to
the gasket-failure. A
standard prophylactic,
preferably lubricated,
will serve in an excel-
lent capacity as a gas-
kit seal for temporary
usage. It is not, how-
ever, recommended that
the prophylactic later
be used for its original
intent as this may cause
serious repercussions in
the biological sense of
the word.
SEPTEMBER, 1976
I ATTENDED A PARTY AND
DRANK WY CUSTOMARY SIA-
PACK. I WAS STILL THIRSTY
AND PICKED UP HALE UNA
BOTTLE UP WINE. WHEN THIS
RAN OUT, I STAGGERED INTO
THE KITCHEN AND FOUND A
GROUP PREPARING TO DRINK
SOME TEQUILA. THEY HAD
NO SALT AND I SHOWED THEM
10W GARLIC SALT WAS JUST
AS GOOD, AFTER SEVERAL
HITS LIKE THAT, I WAS
FEELING PUURLY. VERY SWN
THEREAFTER I WAS TO BE
FOUND THROWING UP UNTO A
VOLNSWAGEN.
Comments: This is a
good example of a well
prepared party situation,
It was the partier and
not the party that died
first! You should be more
careful about hugging the
commode, though, you would
not want to get too per-
sonal with it. .
JULY, 1976
I HAD JUST FAILED AN
ELAN AND WAS IN THE MOUL
TU DRINK, AT SIX P.. I
WENT INTU A DARK RESTAU-
RANT AND HAD TWO WUARTS
UF DEER. LEFT BECAUSE
IT WAS TUU DARK TO WRITE
ANYTHING. I WENT TO A
DIFFERENT DAR BECAUSE IT
HAD WURE LIGHT. IT ALSU
HAPPENED TU HAVE A HAPPY
HUUR AT 50Â¢ PER QUART. I
HAD TWO MORE QUARTS THEN
CALLED IN A FRIEND FOR
REINFORCEMENT. WE WRANK
UNTIL WE WERE THROWN OUT
AT ONE A.WE WENT TO
ANOTHER BAR, PLAYED PUOL
AND DRANK. I STARTED TU
FEEL PUURLY SO I WENT
'Dear DTC'
1N, HOW MUCH DOES PISS
HURT CAR TIRES?
It depends on the time
that the tire is allowed
to sit in the urine. For
short parties, a day or
so, there is little, if
any, danger. With some-
thing like a week of a
convention, though, the
urine has a chance to
break down into its pri-
mary components, partic-
ularly uric acid, and
will have the opportunity
to eat away at the tire,
No. 1&2, Dec. 1976
