scrambled up the lead, my inexperienced friend was hesitant to
follow. When he finally attempted the climb, without belay, he
soon became very nervous, and had to be helped down to the floor.
The situation could have become critical, for he was very afraid
of the climb. However, my inexperienced friend happened to be my
roommate, and after watching me come in and out of the room
weekend after weekend from caving trips, he had built up the idea
that I was a good, and consequently trustworthy, caver. He
agreed readily to my idea of a belay, and with his trust solely
in me, for he had no real concept of the trustworthiness of the
belay, Jud managed to climb the drop successfully. Thus, just as
I had felt a need to trust cavers in my trainee days, So Jud, my
roommate, demonstrated his trust in me and completed the exciting
trip without difficulty. It he had not trusted me in this
situation we would probably have run into great difficulty in
getting out of the cave in a reasonable amount of time.
Consequently, it is important to the survival of the individual,
as well as the group, for everyone to have faith in each other.
Through my experiences with people and techniques, I have
learned that caving is a sport which requires, more than most
other sports, a high degree of faith in others abilities and in
gear reliability. Now, as I pass on my knowledge of gear and
techniques to trainees, I can relate to their novice
understanding and fears.. Each time I try and help someone, I
make it a point to not only answer their questions, but to also
extend my answers so that the person will have a better
understanding of what they are doing. In this way, I hope to
build up a trainee's trust, not only in his gear, but also in me.
To a passerby, one may notice a certain bond between cavers, from
any area of the world, that links them together, perhaps a bit
closer than other friends. It is this bond formed by trust which
eminates from cavers, for when one's life is on the line, one can
count on a fellow caver to help you out.
by Craig T. Roberts
